# React Fundamentals

## 01. Basic JavaScript-rendered Hello World

The browser takes html, generates DOM and exposes it to JavaScript to add
interactivity of web page.

In traditional way, web page (html) are generated by the server and add
JavaScript on top of generated html for interactivity. But the requirements of
interactivity become more challenging, this approach is default to maintain and
have performance issues. That's why modern javascript library are created to
create DOM programmatically rather than defining in html.

[DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)

[append](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/append)

[appendChild](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Node/appendChild)

[element attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#attributes)

[modules js](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules)

[modules js examples](https://github.com/mdn/js-examples/tree/master/modules)

## 02. Introduction to Raw React API

[react source code](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/48907797294340b6d5d8fecfbcf97edf0691888d/packages/react-dom/src/client/ReactDOMComponent.js#L416)

React abstracts the imperative browser API and gives a much declarative API

[imperative vs declarative](https://ui.dev/imperative-vs-declarative-programming)

React supports multiple platforms and each one has its own code and shared code
between platforms.

For web applications, two JavaScript files is needed.

1. React => responsible for creating React elements (like
   document.createElement())
2. ReactDOM => responsible for rendering React elements to the DOM
   (rootElement.append())

To get React and ReactDOM library, use npm (package registry) or cdn (unpkg.com)

[unpkg](https://unpkg.com/)

after including script tags, React and ReactDOM are available as global
variables due to UMD (universal module definition)

In React.createElement, children can be properties of prop object or any number
of additional parameters which is after second parameter. So, for multiple
children, can use array or multiple parameters. if children is array, key is
needed to provide, multiple parameters, no need to provide. if no props is
needed, can give null

## Using JSX

JSX is html-like syntactic sugar on top of raw React API. It is easy to read,
write and understand. It compiles to React raw api.

JSX is not actually JavaScript, need to be used babel compiler, check in babel
REPL for example

[babel](https://babeljs.io/)

[babel repl for jsx](https://babeljs.io/repl#?browsers=defaults%2C%20not%20ie%2011%2C%20not%20ie_mob%2011&build=&builtIns=App&corejs=3.21&spec=false&loose=false&code_lz=MYewdgzgLgBArgSxgXhgHgCYIG4D40QAOAhmLgBICmANtSGgPRGm7rNkDqIATtRo-3wMseAFBA&debug=false&forceAllTransforms=false&shippedProposals=false&circleciRepo=&evaluate=false&fileSize=false&timeTravel=false&sourceType=module&lineWrap=true&presets=react&prettier=true&targets=&version=7.17.11&externalPlugins=&assumptions=%7B%7D)

Knowing JSX and its compiled version is good for reading and using it.

since jsx also is not actually html, there are a few subtle differences for
attributes. For eg, class in html, className in JSX

[jsx vs html attributes](https://reactjs.org/docs/dom-elements.html#differences-in-attributes)

Interpolation is defined as "the insertion of something of a different nature
into something else."

[jsx](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html)

if children are provided in props and children, it will show only one. if
children are provided in props, it will be in props of React.createElement if
children are provided in children, it will be third parameter of
React.createElement

text/babel means browser does not run that script but babel takes that and
compiles and generates new script tag in the head tag which can be run by
browser

for passing props, order of props matters because of overwriting. Same props can
be overwritten by latter.
